vm-config.md, before:

# Idempotent VM spawning config

## Idempotency:
The user defines a desired state in the form of a config in yaml, and cf-remote makes it a reality.
If run against an existing environment, it detects changes and 'repairs' the current state using the configuration.

## Example

```yml
templates:
  ubuntu-vm:
    provider:
      name: aws
      aws:
        image: ubuntu-24

  centos7:
    provider:
      name: vagrant
      vagrant:
        box: generic/centos7

groups:
  - myhub:
      role: hub
      count: 1
      spawn-config: ubuntu-vm
      cfengine: 
        version: 3.24.3 
      scripts: [ ./script.sh ]

  - myclient:
      role: client
      count: 3
      spawn-config: centos7
      cfengine: 
        version: 3.24.3
        bootstrap: myhub

  - other:
      role: client
      spawn-config:
        hosts: [ ubuntu@1.1.1.1 ]
      cfengine:
        version: 3.24.3
        bootstrap: myhub
```

### Spawning

```bash
cf-remote up config.yaml
```

Example output. myclient is already spawned from a previous run. 
```
Checking current state...
Checking 'myhub'... Changes detected. Enabling repair
  Spawning: 'ubuntu-24' on 'aws' provider... OK
  Installing: 'cfengine-nova-hub_3.27.0-1.ubuntu24_amd64.deb' on 'ubuntu@34.244.25.232'... OK
  Running: './script.sh' on 'ubuntu@34.244.25.232'... OK
Checking 'myclient'... No Changes detected. OK
Checking 'other'... Changes detected. Enabling repair
  Hosts: adding 'ubuntu@1.1.1.1' to 'other'... OK
  Installing: 'cfengine-nova-client_3.27.0-1.ubuntu24_amd64.deb' on 'ubuntu@1.1.1.1'... OK
  Bootstrapping: '1.1.1.1' -> '172.31.23.220'... OK
Details about the current state can be found in /home/user/.cfengine/cf-remote/cloud_state.json
```

### Destroying

```bash
cf-remote destroy config.yaml
```

# Future features

- inlining (being able to split config in smaller subtrees)

Commit message:

algorithm sketch
Signed-off-by: Victor Moene <victor.moene@northern.tech>

vm-config.md, after:

# Idempotent VM spawning config

## Idempotency:
The user defines a desired state in the form of a config in yaml, and cf-remote makes it a reality.
If run against an existing environment, it detects changes and 'repairs' the current state using the configuration.

## Example

```yml
templates:
  ubuntu-vm:
    provider:
      name: aws
      aws:
        image: ubuntu-24

  centos7:
    provider:
      name: vagrant
      vagrant:
        box: generic/centos7

groups:
  - myhub:
      role: hub
      count: 1
      spawn-config: ubuntu-vm
      cfengine: 
        version: 3.24.3 
      scripts: [ ./script.sh ]

  - myclient:
      role: client
      count: 3
      spawn-config: centos7
      cfengine: 
        version: 3.24.3
        bootstrap: myhub

  - other:
      role: client
      spawn-config:
        hosts: [ ubuntu@1.1.1.1 ]
      cfengine:
        version: 3.24.3
        bootstrap: myhub
```

### Spawning

```bash
cf-remote up config.yaml
```

Example output. myclient is already spawned from a previous run. 
```
Checking current state...
Checking 'myhub'... Changes detected. Enabling repair
  Spawning: 'ubuntu-24' on 'aws' provider... OK
  Installing: 'cfengine-nova-hub_3.27.0-1.ubuntu24_amd64.deb' on 'ubuntu@34.244.25.232'... OK
  Running: './script.sh' on 'ubuntu@34.244.25.232'... OK
Checking 'myclient'... No Changes detected. OK
Checking 'other'... Changes detected. Enabling repair
  Hosts: adding 'ubuntu@1.1.1.1' to 'other'... OK
  Installing: 'cfengine-nova-client_3.27.0-1.ubuntu24_amd64.deb' on 'ubuntu@1.1.1.1'... OK
  Bootstrapping: '1.1.1.1' -> '172.31.23.220'... OK
Details about the current state can be found in /home/user/.cfengine/cf-remote/cloud_state.json
```

### Destroying

```bash
cf-remote destroy config.yaml
```

# Algorithm

1. Resolve templates in config
2. Validate resolved config using `schema` library
3. Load old state (cloud_state.json)
4. Transform validated config (new state) into same format as old state
5. Compute diffs between old state and new state. Return a list of tuple (path, before, after)
6. Map diffs to Change object containing the type of change (ex: install), the status (ex: pending) and the dependencies (vm must be already spawned)
7. schedule the list of change objects with topological sort or other algorithm and run each change using cf-remote's commands
8. save new state to cloud_state.json

# Future features

- inlining (being able to split config in smaller subtrees)
